docs/source/markup.rst, before:

Documentation Formats
=====================

Epytext Support
---------------

`Syntax reference <http://epydoc.sourceforge.net/manual-epytext.html>`_

The Epytext support has been herited from the ``epydoc`` software. So all markup should work. Except ``X{}`` tag, which has been removed. 

As a reminder, the following fields are supported::

    @author
    @cvar
    @ivar
    @note
    @param (synonym: @arg)
    @raise (synonym: @raises)
    @return (synonym: @returns)
    @rtype (synonym: @returntype)
    @see (synonym: @seealso)
    @type
    @var


ReStructuredText Support
------------------------

`Syntax reference <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/rst.html>`_

.. important::

    The following fields are **NOT supported yet**:

    - Abnomitions: ``.. warning::``, ``.. note::`` and others... 
    
    (Full list of supported and unsupported ReStructuredText markup to come)

.. note:: In any case, *plaintext* docformat will be used if docstrings can't be parsed with *restructuredtext* parser.

Commit message:

Link to Twisted API documentation instead of the code in Customize builds section
Generate API docs under the "api" folder

Say that only rst abnomition are know not be working yet

Better docs to get rid of pdoc3

docs/source/markup.rst, after:

Documentation Formats
=====================

Epytext Support
---------------

`Syntax reference <http://epydoc.sourceforge.net/manual-epytext.html>`_

The Epytext support has been herited from the ``epydoc`` software. So all markup should work. Except ``X{}`` tag, which has been removed. 

As a reminder, the following fields are supported::

    @author
    @cvar
    @ivar
    @note
    @param (synonym: @arg)
    @raise (synonym: @raises)
    @return (synonym: @returns)
    @rtype (synonym: @returntype)
    @see (synonym: @seealso)
    @type
    @var

ReStructuredText Support
------------------------

`Syntax reference <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/ref/rst/restructuredtext.html>`_

.. important::

    - Abnomitions are not supported yet: ``.. warning::``, ``.. note::``, etc. 
    
    - Other directives like ``.. contents::`` and ``.. include::`` are working just fine !

    (Full list of supported and unsupported ReStructuredText markup to come)

.. note:: In any case, *plaintext* docformat will be used if docstrings can't be parsed with *restructuredtext* parser.
