docs/source/transition.rst, before:

Transition to ``pydoctor``
==========================

From ``epydoc``
---------------

If you are looking for a successor to ``epydoc`` after moving to Python 3, ``pydoctor`` is the right tool for your project!

.. important::

    - ``pydoctor`` dropped support for the ``X{}`` tag. All other epytext markup syntax should be fully supported

From ``pdoc3``
--------------

There a couple reasons to stop using ``pdoc3``, the main one beeing the swastika in their website footer.

.. important::

    - ``pydoctor`` do not support markdown docstrings. The easiest is to use *restructuredtext* docformat as they are sharing numerous markup syntax.

    - ``pydoctor`` can only genrate HTML, if you are using markdown output, consider using ``pdocs``. 

    - Some ReStructuredText directives are not supported yet, please refer to `Documentation Formats <markup.html>`_ ReStructuredText Support section for more infos. 

    - All references to ``__pdoc__`` module variable should be deleted as they are not supported.

Commit message:

Link to Twisted API documentation instead of the code in Customize builds section
Generate API docs under the "api" folder

Say that only rst abnomition are know not be working yet

Better docs to get rid of pdoc3

docs/source/transition.rst, after:

Transition to ``pydoctor``
==========================

From ``epydoc``
---------------

If you are looking for a successor to ``epydoc`` after moving to Python 3, ``pydoctor`` is the right tool for your project!

.. important::

    - ``pydoctor`` dropped support for the ``X{}`` tag. All other epytext markup syntax should be fully supported

From ``pdoc3``
--------------

There a couple reasons to stop using ``pdoc3``, the main one beeing the swastika in their website footer.

.. important::

    - ``pydoctor`` do not support markdown docstrings. The easiest is to use *restructuredtext* docformat as they are sharing numerous markup syntax.

    - ``pydoctor`` can only genrate HTML, if you are using markdown output, consider using ``pdocs``. 

    - Some ReStructuredText directives are not supported yet, please refer to `Documentation Formats <markup.html>`_ ReStructuredText Support section for more infos. 

    - All references to ``__pdoc__`` module variable should be deleted as they are not supported. If you dynamically generated documentation, you should create a separate script and include it's output with an ``.. include::`` directive.
