docs/source/docformat/restructuredtext.rst, before:

reStructuredText
================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    restructuredtext/restructuredtext_demo

.. important::
    ``pydoctor`` relies on ``docutils`` to offer *restructuredtext* support, update docutils with: ``pip install -U docutils``. 

For the language syntax documentation, read the `ReST docutils syntax reference <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/user/rst/quickref.html>`_.

.. note:: HTML element's classes generated by our custom ``HTMLTranslator`` have a ``"rst-"`` prefix

.. note:: In any case, *plaintext* docstring format will be used if docstrings can't be parsed with *restructuredtext* parser.


Fields
------

Here are the supported *restructuredtext* fields:

    - ``:cvar foo:``
    - ``:ivar foo:``
    - ``:var foo:``
    - ``:param bar:`` (synonym: ``:arg bar:``)
    - ``:type bar: str``
    - ``:return:``
    - ``:rtype: list``
    - ``:raises ValueError:`` (synonym ``:except ValueError:``)
    - ``:note:``

In addition to the standard set of fields, the reStructuredText
parser also supports **consolidated fields**, which combine the documentation
for several objects into a single field.

These consolidated fields may be written using either a `bulleted list <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html#bullet-lists>`_
or a `definition list <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html#definition-lists>`_.

- If a consolidated field is written as a bulleted list, then each list item must begin with the field's argument,
  marked as `interpreted text <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html#inline-markup>`_, and followed by a colon or dash.
- If a consolidated field is written as a definition list, then each definition item's term should contain the field's argument, (it is not mandatory for it being marked as interpreted text).

The following example shows the use of a definition list to define the ``Parameters`` consolidated field with type definition.
Note that *docutils* requires a space before and after the ``:`` used to mark classifiers.

.. code:: python

    def fox_speed(size, weight, age):
        '''
        :Parameters:
            size
                The size of the fox (in meters)
            weight : float
                The weight of the fox (in stones)
            age : int
                The age of the fox (in years)
        '''

Using a bulleted list.

.. code:: python

    def fox_speed(size:float, weight:float, age:int):
        '''
        :Parameters:
            - `size`: The size of the fox (in meters)
            - `weight`: The weight of the fox (in stones)
            - `age`: The age of the fox (in years)
        '''

The following consolidated fields are currently supported by PyDoctor:

.. table:: Consolidated Fields

    ==============================      ==============================
    Consolidated Field Tag              Corresponding Base Field Tag
    ==============================      ==============================
    ``:Parameters:``                    ``:param:``
    ``:Keywords:``                      ``:keyword:``
    ``:Exceptions:``                    ``:except:``
    ``:Variables:``                     ``:var:``
    ``:IVariables:``                    ``:ivar:``
    ``:CVariables:``                    ``:cvar:``
    ``:Types:``                         ``:type:``
    ==============================      ==============================

Fields are case *insensitive*.

Cross-references
----------------

PyDoctor replaces the Docutils' default `interpreted text role <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/roles.html>`_ with the creation of
`documentation cross-reference links <http://epydoc.sourceforge.net/epydoc.html#documentation-crossreference-links>`_. If you want to create a cross-reference link
to the ``module.Example`` class, simply put backticks around it, typing::

    `module.Example`


Directives
----------

Here is a list of the supported ReST directives by package of origin:

- `docutils`: ``.. include::``, ``.. contents::``, ``.. image::``, 
  ``.. figure::``, ``.. unicode::``, ``.. raw::``, ``.. math::``, 
  ``.. role::``, ``.. table::``, ``.. warning::``, ``.. note::`` 
  and other admonitions, and a few others.
- `epydoc`: None
- `Sphinx`: None
- `pydoctor`: ``.. python::``

`Full list of supported and unsupported directives <list-restructuredtext-support.html>`_

Colorized snippets directive
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using reStructuredText markup it is possible to specify Python snippets in a 
`doctest block <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/user/rst/quickref.html#doctest-blocks>`_.

If the Python prompt gets in your way when you try to copy and paste and you are not interested 
in self-testing docstrings, the python directive will let you obtain a simple block of colorized text::

    .. python::

        def fib(n):
            """Print a Fibonacci series."""
            a, b = 0, 1
            while b < n:
                print b,
                a, b = b, a+b

Commit message:

fix violations in demo packages

docs/source/docformat/restructuredtext.rst, after:

reStructuredText
================

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    restructuredtext/restructuredtext_demo

.. important::
    ``pydoctor`` relies on ``docutils`` to offer *restructuredtext* support, update docutils with: ``pip install -U docutils``. 

For the language syntax documentation, read the `ReST docutils syntax reference <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/user/rst/quickref.html>`_.

Fields
------

Here are the supported *restructuredtext* fields:

    - ``:cvar foo:``
    - ``:ivar foo:``
    - ``:var foo:``
    - ``:param bar:`` (synonym: ``:arg bar:``)
    - ``:type bar: str``
    - ``:return:``
    - ``:rtype: list``
    - ``:raises ValueError:`` (synonym ``:except ValueError:``)
    - ``:note:``

In addition to the standard set of fields, the reStructuredText
parser also supports **consolidated fields**, which combine the documentation
for several objects into a single field.

These consolidated fields may be written using either a `bulleted list <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html#bullet-lists>`_
or a `definition list <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html#definition-lists>`_.

- If a consolidated field is written as a bulleted list, then each list item must begin with the field's argument,
  marked as `interpreted text <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/user/rst/quickref.html#inline-markup>`_, and followed by a colon or dash.
- If a consolidated field is written as a definition list, then each definition item's term should contain the field's argument, (it is not mandatory for it being marked as interpreted text).

The following example shows the use of a definition list to define the ``Parameters`` consolidated field with type definition.
Note that *docutils* requires a space before and after the ``:`` used to mark classifiers.

.. code:: python

    def fox_speed(size, weight, age):
        '''
        :Parameters:
            size
                The size of the fox (in meters)
            weight : float
                The weight of the fox (in stones)
            age : int
                The age of the fox (in years)
        '''

Using a bulleted list.

.. code:: python

    def fox_speed(size:float, weight:float, age:int):
        '''
        :Parameters:
            - `size`: The size of the fox (in meters)
            - `weight`: The weight of the fox (in stones)
            - `age`: The age of the fox (in years)
        '''

The following consolidated fields are currently supported by PyDoctor:

.. table:: Consolidated Fields

    ==============================      ==============================
    Consolidated Field Tag              Corresponding Base Field Tag
    ==============================      ==============================
    ``:Parameters:``                    ``:param:``
    ``:Keywords:``                      ``:keyword:``
    ``:Exceptions:``                    ``:except:``
    ``:Variables:``                     ``:var:``
    ``:IVariables:``                    ``:ivar:``
    ``:CVariables:``                    ``:cvar:``
    ``:Types:``                         ``:type:``
    ==============================      ==============================

Fields are case *insensitive*.

Cross-references
----------------

PyDoctor replaces the Docutils' default `interpreted text role <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/roles.html>`_ with the creation of
`documentation cross-reference links <http://epydoc.sourceforge.net/epydoc.html#documentation-crossreference-links>`_. If you want to create a cross-reference link
to the ``module.Example`` class, simply put backticks around it, typing::

    `module.Example`


Directives
----------

Here is a list of the supported ReST directives by package of origin:

- `docutils`: ``.. include::``, ``.. contents::``, ``.. image::``, 
  ``.. figure::``, ``.. unicode::``, ``.. raw::``, ``.. math::``, 
  ``.. role::``, ``.. table::``, ``.. warning::``, ``.. note::`` 
  and other admonitions, and a few others.
- `epydoc`: None
- `Sphinx`: None
- `pydoctor`: ``.. python::``

`Full list of supported and unsupported directives <list-restructuredtext-support.html>`_

Colorized snippets directive
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using reStructuredText markup it is possible to specify Python snippets in a 
`doctest block <https://docutils.sourceforge.io/docs/user/rst/quickref.html#doctest-blocks>`_.

If the Python prompt gets in your way when you try to copy and paste and you are not interested 
in self-testing docstrings, the python directive will let you obtain a simple block of colorized text::

    .. python::

        def fib(n):
            """Print a Fibonacci series."""
            a, b = 0, 1
            while b < n:
                print b,
                a, b = b, a+b


.. note:: Currently, ReST violations will be reported at a line corresponding to the beginning of the docstring. 
    See `pydoctor/issues/237 <https://github.com/twisted/pydoctor/issues/237>`_ for more discussion. 

.. note:: HTML element's classes generated by our custom ``HTMLTranslator`` have a ``"rst-"`` prefix

.. note:: In any case, *plaintext* docstring format will be used if docstrings can't be parsed with *restructuredtext* parser.
